# APIs: Server Side Implementation Notes

_(c) AMWA 2018, CC Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-SA 4.0)_

## Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)

In order to permit web control interfaces to be hosted remotely, all NMOS APIs MUST implement valid CORS HTTP headers in responses, and respond to HTTP pre-flight OPTIONS requests. In order to simplify development, the following headers may be returned in order to remove these restrictions as far as possible. Note that these are very relaxed and may not be suitable for a production deployment.

```
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
Access-Control-Allow-Methods: GET, PUT, POST, HEAD, OPTIONS, DELETE
Access-Control-Allow-Headers: Content-Type, Accept
Access-Control-Max-Age: 3600
```

To ensure compatibility, the response 'Access-Control-Allow-Headers' could be set from the request's 'Access-Control-Request-Headers'.

## Start-Up Behaviour

This specification does not define the channel mapping behaviour at start-up, as this may depend on the nature of the Device the API is controlling. However - it is important that the channel mapping behaviour of the underlying Device is reflected in the API at start-up.

## Inputs and Outputs

### Output and Source Relationship

Where audio mapped to an Output is or may be passed to an NMOS Sender within the same Device then the an NMOS Source UUID representing the newly mapped audio SHOULD appear in the `sourceID` resource of the associated Output (e.g outputs/output1/sourceID). This is the case
regardless of whether the audio is or may undergo a Source creating change between
the Output and the NMOS Sender. If the audio cannot be sent to an NMOS Sender within the Device then the `sourceID` resource SHOULD return `null`.

In the case where no audio is currently mapped onto an Output (i.e all it's entrile in the active map are `null`) then the Output sill constitutes a Source, and as such the `sourceID` resource for the Output SHOULD still present a Source ID.

### Receiver and Input Relationship

Where the audio associated with an Audio Channel Mapping API Input comes directly from an NMOS Receiver the UUID of that Receiver SHOULD appear in the `receiverID/` resource of the associated Input (e.g inputs/input1/receiverID). If the Input, having been received, has undergone a transpormation that would constitute the creation of a new source the receiverID resource SHOULD return a JSON `null`. If the audio is not associated with an NMOS receiver, the receiverID resource SHOULD also return a JSON `null`.

In the case where the receiver associated with an Input is not currently receiving any audio, but would pass any audio received in the future onto its Input, then the receiverID resource SHOULD return the UUID of the Receiver it is associated with.

### Channels

An Input and Outputs MUST have at least one channel listed in its `channels` resource. A Device defines the number channels it can support in the `caps` resourceFor some Devices the number of channels will be fixed - for example where an Input or Output represents a baseband connection to a Device such as analouge audio or AES. In this case the values of `minChannels` and `maxChannels` in the `caps` resource SHOULD be the same.

Some Devices might allow the API client to specify the number of channels in an Input or Output, for example where the Input represents audio from an NMOS Receiver. In this case the Device MUST still specify the number of channels supported using the `minChannels` and `maxChannels` parameters in `caps`. The client can then configure the number of channels 

The number of channels supp

