# Interoperability: NMOS IS-04

_(c) AMWA 2018, CC Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-SA 4.0)_

The Audio Channel Mapping API shares a data model with the NMOS IS-04 specification, and as a result it is designed to be used alongside it. The following implementation notes identify correct behaviour for doing this.

When this API is used alongside IS-04 in a deployment, the IS-04 APIs should be operating at version 1.1 or greater in order to ensure full interoperability.

## Discovery

The Audio Channel Mapping API should be advertised as a 'control' endpoint when publishing a compliant NMOS Device. By using the common type 'urn:x-nmos:control:cm-ctrl/v1.0', control interfaces can identify all Devices which implement the Audio Channel Mapping API, and the URLs required to access them. For more details see [NMOS Device Control Types](https://github.com/AMWA-TV/nmos-parameter-registers/tree/master/device-control-types).

**Example:** The 'controls' attribute of a single NMOS Device

```json
...
"controls": [
  {
    "type": "urn:x-nmos:control:cm-ctrl/v1.0",
    "href": "http://192.168.10.3/x-nmos/channelmapping/v1.0/"
  }
]
...
```

Note as above that the API version is included in the 'type', and in the 'href'. As new versions of the Audio Channel Mapping API are published, further control endpoints may be advertised for Devices which support multiple versions simultaneously.

More details about multi-version support can be found in [5.0. Upgrade Path](5.0.%20Upgrade%20Path.md).

A given instance of the Audio Channel Mapping API MAY offer control of multiple Devices in a Node from a single URI. Alternatively there MAY be multiple instances of the API on one Node, each corresponding to one Device. In either case, a separate 'control' endpoint for each Device's API instance MUST be advertised, even if the URI is the same.

## Receiver and Source IDs

The Source and Receiver UUIDs used in the API to identify relationships to Inputs and Outputs MUST match those used in a corresponding IS-04 implementation.

Where this Device creates a new Source at an Output (see [4.0 Behaviour](4.0.%20Behaviour.md)), the Device MUST advertise these in the IS-04 Node API, and in the IS-04 registry if available.

## Version Increments

In order to prevent unnecessary polling of the Audio Channel Mapping API, any changes to active map parameters belonging to Source connected Outputs MUST be signalled via the IS-04 versioning mechanism by means of a version timestamp increment.
