# Behaviour

_(c) AMWA 2018, CC Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-SA 4.0)_

## Start-Up Behaviour

This specification does not define the channel mapping behaviour at start-up, as this may depend on the nature of the Device the API is controlling. However - it is important that the channel mapping behaviour of the underlying Device is reflected in the API at start-up.

## Inputs and Outputs

### Output and Source Relationship

Where audio mapped to an Output is or may be passed to an NMOS Sender within the same Device then the an NMOS Source UUID representing the newly mapped audio SHOULD appear in the `sourceID` resource of the associated Output (e.g outputs/output1/sourceID). This is the case
regardless of whether the audio is or may undergo a Source creating change between
the Output and the NMOS Sender. If the audio cannot be sent to an NMOS Sender within the Device then the `sourceID` resource SHOULD return `null`.

In the case where no audio is currently mapped onto an Output (i.e all it's entries in the active map are `null`) then the Output sill constitutes a Source, and as such the `sourceID` resource for the Output SHOULD still present a Source ID.

### Receiver and Input Relationship

Where the audio associated with an Audio Channel Mapping API Input comes directly from an NMOS Receiver the UUID of that Receiver SHOULD appear in the `receiverID/` resource of the associated Input (e.g inputs/input1/receiverID). If the Input, having been received, has undergone a transformation that would constitute the creation of a new source the receiverID resource SHOULD return a JSON `null`. If the audio is not associated with an NMOS receiver, the receiverID resource SHOULD also return a JSON `null`.

In the case where the receiver associated with an Input is not currently receiving any audio, but would pass any audio received in the future onto its Input, then the receiverID resource SHOULD return the UUID of the Receiver it is associated with.

### Channels

An Input and Outputs MUST have at least one channel listed in its `channels` resource. A Device defines the number channels it can support in the `caps` resource. For some Devices the number of channels will be fixed - for example where an Input or Output represents a base-band connection to a Device such as analogue audio or AES. In this case the values of `minChannels` and `maxChannels` in the `caps` resource SHOULD be the same.

Some Devices might allow the API client to specify the number of channels in an Input or Output, for example where the Input represents audio from an NMOS Receiver. In this case the Device MUST still specify the number of channels supported using the `minChannels` and `maxChannels` parameters in `caps`. The client can then configure the number of channels by performing a PATCH request on the `params` endpoint.

A change to the number of channels in an Input or Output MUST be represented in the Input or Outputs own `channels` resource, but also MUST be represented in the global `map/active` and `map/staged` resources - and in the global `io` resource.

Newly created Output channels SHOULD start un-routed with the `input` and `channel` properties for the channel in  the map table being set to `null`. The decision as to which channels are deleted when the number of channels are removed is left as a Decision to implementers, as it is likely to depend on the application of the Device.

### Input Channel Offset

When receiving from an input with a very large number of channels - for example a MADI input or SMPTE 2110-30 stream - it may be that the underlying Device hardware is not capable of mapping all received channels at any one time. As such it is possible for an Input to have fewer channels than the audio it is receiving. The client may select which of the received channels is connected to the Input by adjusting the Input's `offset` parameter in the `params` endpoint.

This allows the Input to act as a "window" that may be moved up and down the received channels, as illustrated below:

TODO: Add Image

In some cases the Device may wish to restrict the number of steps this window can be moved over. This may be done using the `offsetStep` parameter in the Input's `caps` resource. For example it may only make sense for the window to be moved over stereo pairs - in which case the `offsetStep` parameter would be set to 2.

If the client asks for an offset that is outside the range of channels, or does not align with the offset step, the server SHOULD return an HTTP 400 response in the manner defined in the schema documents.

## Map

### Staging Parameters
When PATCHing the `staged` map resource clients MAY use a subset of the schema, such that only the entries to be updated are included. The API MUST leave values not expressly updated in the PATCH request un-changed.

Changes to the `staged` map MUST NOT result in any changes to the Device audio channel mapping behaviour until there is an activation.

### Activation of Staged Parameters

#### Activation Requests

In order to trigger an activation a client PATCHes the `activation` object in the `map/staged` endpoint. The `mode` property may be set to any one of the following four values:

- `activate_immediate` - The Device MUST undertake to apply the staged parameters to the underlying audio processing as soon as possible.
- `activate_scheduled_absolute` - The Device MUST activate the staged parameters as close as possible to the absolute time indicated by the timestamp in the `requested_time` field. The timestamp MUST be treated as a TAI timestamp, as detailed in the [Timestamps](###Timestamps) sub-section.
- `activate-scheduled_relative` - The Device MUST activate the staged parameters as close as possible to the relative time in seconds indicated by the `requested_time` field. See the [Timestamps](###Timestamps) Section for details on the format of this timestamp.
- `null` - The Device is not expected to perform an activation. This value is the default which the `mode` parameter will return to after an activation, and may also be PATCHED by the client to cancel a pending scheduled activation of either kind.

#### Activation Responses

Note the presence of the extra `activation_time` parameter in the response schema. For immediate activation this SHOULD be the time the activation actually occurred as an absolute TAI timestamp. If no activation was requested in the PATCH `activation_time` MUST be set null.

An HTTP 200 response SHOULD be returned for PATCH requests where no activation has been scheduled, an activation has been cancelled, or an immediate activation has been requested. The response will always contain the full set of parameters in the response schema. For a request with an immediate activation the API SHOULD only return a response once the new map has been applied to the audio.

An HTTP 202 response SHOULD be returned when a request for a scheduled activation is accepted, to indicate that while the request itself was acceptable it has not yet been acted upon by the sender. For scheduled activations `activation_time` should be the absolute TAI time the parameters will actually transition. For absolute scheduled activations should be the same as the requested time, but may differ if the Device is unable to schedule at the requested time.

An HTTP 423 response SHOULD be returned when the resource is locked because an activation has already been scheduled. A resource may be unlocked by setting mode in activation to `null`, which will cancel the pending activation. This may be done in the same request as a change to other parameters.

Note that for activations the `mode` parameter will return to null once the activation transaction with the client is completed (i.e the response to the PATCH has been sent by the server).

### Timestamps

All timestamps in this API are string formatted timestamps (\<seconds\>:\<nanoseconds\>) indicating time (absolute or relative) for activation. For relative times, the time '0:0' is considered to be the time the request is received by the API.

In order to ensure consistent operation of the API during and around leap seconds the API uses TAI for all absolute timestamps. TAI does not apply leap seconds, and is therefore an integer number of seconds different to UTC. The timestamps used in the API are based on the UNIX epoch, meaning 1970-01-01 00:00:00 TAI would be represented as '0:0'.

Devices receiving their time references in UTC MUST maintain an up-to-date knowledge of when leap seconds will be applied in order to correctly calculate TAI time. Leap second information is available for the [International Earth Rotation and Reference System Service (IERS)](https://www.iers.org/IERS/EN/Home/home_node.html).

## IO Resource

The IO resource provides a structure detailing all Inputs, Outputs and available mappings between them.

The object returned from this resource contains an Input object and an Output Object. These objects contain objects representing each of the Inputs/Outputs. These objects contain a list of channels available, and the ReceiverID/SourceID associated with the Input/Output respectively. This information MUST match the information available in the Input's/Output's own resources.

In addition Output's have a list of rout-able Inputs. These MUST be populated by the Device, such that if an Input is listed in an Output's rout-able input list then channels from that input can be routed to that Output in the Map table.

Clients SHOULD NOT attempt to route channels from Inputs to an Output unless that Input is listed in the Output's `routableInputs` array. If a client attempts to make such a route the API SHOULD respond with an HTTP 400 response.
